If you see in Java, Java 11 provides support for two types of encryption algorithms. One is your ChaCha20 stream cipher, another is Poly1305, these are the two popular ones. So actually Poly 1305 is the authenticator, whereas this guy is your encryption algorithm. So why you need to, if you ask your question yourself, this guy is for doing encryption and this guy is for ensuring this information which you encrypted, is not modified by anybody. So that authentication, so like I said, the third factor of cryptography rule, where the data is originating from only a particular concerned party. Is what this guy ensures by using the Mac and all that. Mac is nothing but message authentication code. 
Now here you see the term stream cipher, so what exactly is stream cipher? So again, in symmetric algorithm, you have two types, things can come when you're talking about symmetric encryption techniques, which is stream ciphers and block ciphers. So cipher simply means algorithms, by the way. So in the case of stream cipher, what will happen is you try to convert one symbol of plain text directly into another symbol of plain text. That means given a text like a, b, c, if you convert a to b and b to c and c to d, that means you are converting one symbol at a time to another form, that's called stream cipher. In the case of block cipher, what will happen is you will not convert one character at a time or one symbol at a time. Rather than character I should say one symbol, because it's not necessary that you have only character, you can have punctuation symbols, numbers, anything. 
So it is all like one symbol at a time, if you convert, that's called stream cipher, whereas rather than one symbol, if you're converting a group of text or a block of text, that's called block cipher. And all your simple substitution like brute force cipher and all that does this stream cipher only. And your Java 11, which provides this ChaCha 120 and ChaCha Poly1305 ciphers, these are all called stream ciphers. So what is this AE or AEAD? So basically AE means authenticated encryption. Like I said, it actually tries to honor the principle that once you convert the information to some encrypted form, how you ensure that it doesn't change in between. How you can guarantee that, yes, this is the information I encrypted and nobody changed it. 
That is what you actually ensure using this particular Poly1305 algorithm. So basically, authentication encryption, or sometimes we call authentication encryption with associated data. That AEAD is that AE stands for authenticated encryption, whereas AEAD means authenticated encryption with associated data. The main aim of these guys is to ensure the encrypted information comes as it is, without getting modified by anybody, that's what the main theme of it. So, how they do it, so what would happen? If you look at generally how the attacks happens, is your hacker, what they generally do is whenever they try to decipher or try to understand what is the algorithm you used. They actually compromise your cryptography, whatever algorithm used, by passing some kind of encrypted text, which they already know what would be the answer. 
And they try to understand from the encryption algorithm, how that is behaving. So based on the behavior, they actually try to crack your algorithm and get the answer. Whereas this kind of AEAD schemes, which is what your ChaCha125 and Poly1305 uses, it ensures even though somebody tries to compromise it, it will not happen, that's what the main aim of this. That means, it is ensuring once your data is encrypted, nobody can come as an intruder and do these kind of tricks, in order to understand your algorithm and crack your algorithm. So like I said, this is what it talks about, we discussed more about it, and like I said, when these two guys combine, they actually do this authenticated encryption with associated data technique. That means they are saying we are encrypting that, not only encrypting the data, but also ensuring the authentication such that nobody can change your data. And this AEAD scheme, that means the combination of ChaCha20 and Poly1305, actually takes a 32-byte as an input. 
And further what it does is it generates a secret key, it actually gives you a secret key and a 12-byte nonce, a variable and a variable length plain text., that's what it takes. And what it does is, it actually gives you a plain text, which a variable length associated data. And that actually when you encrypt it, it gives you a ciphertext, when I say ciphertext, the encrypted text, and finally, the information will be a 16-byte tag. We will look at all that with a programming example, just understand, this is how the flow goes. 